Ingredients:
Unsalted butter: Unsalted butter provides flavor, fat and moisture for this cake. Be sure to start with softened butter to properly cream the butter and sugar mixture until light and fluffy.
Fresh strawberries: This cake recipe skips gelatin or store-bought mixes. The fresh strawberries are reduced to eliminate moisture and then folded into the batter.
Eggs: This cake batter is prepared with two whole eggs and one egg white. This helps eliminate the amount of yellow added to the cake from egg yolks, giving it more of a pink hue.
Freeze-dried strawberries: Use this secret ingredient for the crunch topping! It adds an unbeatable fresh and tangy flavor. You can find freeze-dried strawberries at most grocery stores.
Nilla Wafers: Nilla Wafers have the ideal texture for our crunch topping. If you don’t have Nilla Wafers, use Golden Oreos instead.
Ingredients
2 pounds fresh strawberries
2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 whole eggs, room temperature
1 egg white, room temperature
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
Frosting:

2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 (32-ounce) bag powdered sugar
2 tablespoons milk
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
Crunch Topping:

1 cup freeze-dried strawberries
2 cups Nilla Wafers

Step 1: Prep strawberry puree
Strawberry puree in small bowl
MOLLY ALLEN FOR TASTE OF HOME

Wash the strawberries, then hull them. Puree the berries in a food processor until free of chunks. Transfer the liquid to a small saucepan. Heat the strawberry puree on low, stirring occasionally. Allow the puree to simmer for 30 minutes, reducing down by half. Once reduced, transfer the puree to a bowl or jar to chill in the fridge until cool.

Preheat the oven to 350°F. Grease two 8-inch round cake pans. Place a circular piece of parchment paper in the bottom of each.

Step 2: Combine dry ingredients
whisking dry Ingredients in small bowl
MOLLY ALLEN FOR TASTE OF HOME

In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt and set aside.

Step 3: Cream butter and sugar
Mixing ingredients with stand mixer in a large bowl
MOLLY ALLEN FOR TASTE OF HOME

In a large mixing bowl, or the bowl of a stand mixer, cream the butter and sugar until pale and fluffy. Mix in the two whole eggs, one egg white and vanilla extract.

Step 4: Mix in dry ingredients and milk
Mix in 1/3 of the flour mixture, the half of the milk and another 1/3 of the flour mixture. Mix in the remaining milk and finish with the remaining flour mixture, mixing until just combined.

Step 5: Fold in strawberry puree
Folding Strawberry Puree in a large bowl
MOLLY ALLEN FOR TASTE OF HOME

Using a spatula or wooden spoon, fold in the cooled strawberry puree. Add red gel food coloring for more color if desired.

Step 6: Bake the cakes
Divide the cake batter evenly between the two prepared cake pans. Bake the cakes for 28 to 30 minutes until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Once baked, remove the cakes and allow them to cool for 15 minutes. Transfer the cake layers to a wire rack to finish cooling completely.

Step 7: Make the frosting
folding the frosting in a large bowl
MOLLY ALLEN FOR TASTE OF HOME

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, or a large mixing bowl, beat the softened butter. Mix in half of the powdered sugar, milk and vanilla extract. Gradually mix in the remaining powdered sugar. Once the frosting comes together, whip until fluffy.

Step 8: Make the crunch topping
While the cake layers are cooling, combine the Nilla Wafers and freeze-dried strawberries in a food processor. Pulse into crumbs.

Step 9: Assemble the cake
Place the first cake layer on a plate or cake stand. Frost the top of the first cake layer and place the second layer on top. Frost the tops and sides of the entire cake.

Step 10: Cover with crunch topping
cake on cake stand
MOLLY ALLEN FOR TASTE OF HOME

Place the cake plate or cake stand with the frosted cake on a baking sheet. This will help to catch the crumb topping. Use your hands to gently press and coat the strawberry crunch topping all over the cake.
